alright okay here we are
welcome to the ipfs weekly call it is
the second of March welcome all of you
everyone here this is gonna be fun times
today we have Brendon and Dustin looking
to us about what's new in query
in 2020 Brendon and just Dustin would
you like to take it away or just Dustin
or just Brendan how do you want to do it
I nominate Brendan as starting the
conversation we're also joined by a few
other query folk casing Rico I believe
Oracle high query folk well yeah Brendon
I'll let you look it's gonna started and
we'll type up with a appropriate
alrighty
go for it holy thanks so much for
inviting us this is so nice it's so nice
to see everybody I'm gonna share my
screen and solve this goes ok but if it
doesn't you know demo gods but yeah so
query in 2020 we've spoken on the
offense All Hands call in the past I'm
so I thought I'd give a quick catch-up
for those who are who have already seen
it but if you haven't seen as well we do
before feel free to ask questions to
sort of fill in any stuff that we've
missed but generally we are a query we
do data set version control and are sort
of big mission in the universe is to
make data work open source hopefully I
didn't ask everyone see my screen okay
that work hopefully you can see this
thumbs up okay cool yeah and so by
making didn't work like open source
we've been on as sort of like multi-year
mission to sort of bring the idea of
data set version control a set of tools
that we think it deserves the biggest
thing that we're sort of hoping to and
that's like in the world of software
engineering we have git and github and
we have really great tools for
collaborating and that makes a sort of
whole ecosystem of software development
possible that it's just kind of not
really the case when you look at the
world of open data these days that's the
way we see open dinner right now is very
open data portal based people are really
a sort of publishing only really large
institutions are able to sort of
maintain sort of vibrant open data set
sort of you guys
that's a very one-way conversation and
we're hoping to make it a 2 a 1 and
since we last talked we've done a bunch
of stuff and been positive I'm here as a
bullet list of some positive things
we've done we published a new tool
called query desktop which is an
electron app that runs on top of our
query CLI I'll be showing you a little
bit of that later we've actually started
to grow we've got real users and in many
ways for us this sort of reflects a
change from being a sort of R&D project
to something that is actually being used
in the real world down which comes with
it a whole bunch of things and the a lot
of that growth has been in the last sort
of like 3 or 4 months where we're seeing
lots of people start to show up and
actually use query for data set version
control so the idea is starting to sort
of catch on which is very exciting to
say and we also launched query cloud
which is sort of our HTTP bridging
service that lets you look at data sets
that are published on query on the
regular internet without any sort of
like do you have magic and we brought a
lot of stability and sort of like really
sort of brought forth the features that
we think we need to sort of get into a
system where people can actually start
versioning and publishing data and so
just to like give you a feel for what
that looks like materially this is what
core desktop looks like these days we've
got this sort of like built-in network
of data that already exists and I can
sort of these are data sets that are
currently published on query and all of
this obviously we're on a call all of
this everything you're looking at is
versioned ipfs data so I can sort of
just come in and look at this data set
of presidents that are a birth and death
and we're seeing just like a list of
commits I can see them grayed out
because I don't have them they Lily had
this clone button this is gonna grab
this dataset pull it into my local
repository give me a whole version
history and let me sort of see
everything yeah and so like this gives
us like a meaningful we get like our
classic sort of like github desktop
Styles just yellow dot store what change
between versions
we'll talk more about how this is but
you sort of see everything we need to
see to sort of get through version
historical data get stuff over time I
can pull up a collection of it up
creating data is sort of almost a
straight forward I'm gonna drag a CSV
file really quickly over a desktop
application this is the process of
creating it is that there's a new
dataset cool
I can hit publish
this is gonna be Korean directory
Business Improvement publish we wait a
little bit this move some blocks up into
the cloud I can hit this view and cloud
button yeah I did I said that doesn't
work didn't I didn't put a name metadata
but I can give you some other query
engineering data and I think is really
fun and so like this is translation
transitioning into stuff that we think
is kind of useful for this people in
this call just you a real-world use case
of how this might work if you are in the
engineering space so for us we had
someone file an issue a little while ago
talking about how long it takes to add a
really large data sets aquarium so we're
sort of dealing with some of our
performance issues and so when people
start yelling you about your refer
performance you know that something is
starting to go monster right but this
user was so wonderful day went through
and helped us create benchmark real
world user data created a whole sort of
like graph of how long everything was
taking base that size which is really
exciting and so we're seeing this sort
of like spike into the sort of like 200
seconds on a sort of one gig data set
size we've like they actually took with
the next step and they created a data
set of the benchmarks themselves showing
how they works documenting or reading me
of all their data how it sort of flew
and then actually now I actually have
the data and we're actually as an
engineering team able to look at some of
this stuff and understand how this
actually works and so for us we sort
thought we'd solve wow this is really
exciting and sort of made for fun use
cases to demonstrate today we took this
whole concept and then sort of like rift
on what s command the user sort of
posted and turn this into something that
runs in part as part of our continuous
integration framework and so now this
data set that you're looking at it's
actually the result of I can just cut to
the chase this is like the actual data
that's coming out of it and we can see I
have that actually perhaps yeah and so
then as I spend all of this is actually
posted in hosting ipfs so this is a
visualization that is built into the
dataset itself of the current amount of
time that it's taking and every time we
push to master this data set is updated
in CI so it runs to performance
benchmarks outputs a in Arcis in this
case the CSV file
commits that to query publishes that
back and updates this visualization and
so every time we push the master we get
this really lovely
sort of like hey how well are we doing
in terms of that sort of time so this is
just an example of what it looks like in
CI I can link to any of this if anyone
has any details or wants to see any
details on this on top of all that all
of this actually shows up in Google
dataset search because we've made this
sort of like cloud thing work properly
so we search for query benchmarks we
actually see it's benchmark data set is
being linked inside of query pod itself
this is just like I think a wonderful
example of bridging this sort of like
ipfs universe which like this this thing
that goo that Google is that searches
seeing is actually an IP FS hash at the
bottom of the stack I think it's a
really fun bit yeah and then from there
we sort of like think that that's sort
of hopefully that sort of forms like a
concrete example of how this kind of
thing is useful and where we sort of see
this sort of like intersection between
sort of the hard engineering and why we
think sort of this advertising is a
valuable thing that was a lot of really
fast talking that took way less time
than expected but just know I'm not
gonna stop sharing sorry once again let
me go back but yeah just a sort of
closed houses Tom this sort of lets you
run your own data portal which we think
is really exciting and really sort of
like brings that conversation from just
a one-way thing to a two-way thing in a
way that it's drag-and-drop level easy
and if you want to get really hardcore
you can script it all the way up as we
sort of showed you all this is actually
on ipfs and then just sort of like close
out some of this like where are we
headed this year this year it sort of
marks for us sort of just bringing more
more features towards this to use
because those are sort of starting to
grow the big thing we're gonna bring
forth is a different UI so you can now
actually see the diff between each
version right inside of the desktop
itself that'll be the next thing shift
on the sides on speaking to features
that are more interesting to this crowd
we have the concept of remotes which
exist inside of it but in query remotes
are it just ipfs appears so you can push
and pull to anybody who will allow you
to push in both of them and we're going
to ship the idea of batch applications
so that you can actually start patching
it into set with the diff of another
data set that will be later the other
thing that we're sort of like really
excited about is under the hood all of
these data sets are
interact in a way that we can actually
tell you when your datasets are out of
date so if one dataset is combining to
other ones we can actually tell you hey
this this to downstream did upstream
days that's from you have been updated
you should rerun all of your sort of
scripts and get get the latest version
of your stuff and the last bit that
we're sort of excited to bring to on
this call and that we've been really
sort of like what would you say like
longtime reader first-time poster about
his been ipfs test ground which we've
been following for a lot of while for a
long while and we're actually now
starting to use internally a query and
we're big big big fans and test grounds
we plan to use it a whole bunch I was
really excited I've been really excited
by the idea of sort of simulated Network
testing since the dev summit in Berlin a
number of years ago but the I'm it's so
exciting to see it come to life with the
test ground projects so we wanted to
just flour on the FS call talk about how
excited we are about it and how we were
planning to use that sort of cycle that
we just showed of continuous integration
publishing as part of our test ground
suite where we're actually going to you
know run tests collect metrics and then
use that published layout to updated
versions of that because as we know a
lot of these tests ground tests are
quite expensive to run from a machine
perspective and so yeah the first two
K's foreplane be used for is like
checking for read/write conditions
risking race enos that we think exists
within our app but we haven't been able
to verify it because created conditions
where we think that racing this shows up
is quite difficult and then from there
we're gonna move on to more sort of like
but performance benchmark oriented stuff
in the peer to peer context hopefully
that answers everything or actually gets
to start a conversation started but we'd
be happy to take any questions
yeah thank you that's really cool
I've been trying to take notes at the
same time okay so there's a question
here from the read on what about using
query to visualize the metrics that come
out of test ground 100% yeah yeah I
hopefully I answered that Midway to beat
but yeah hey nice to see you and
absolutely I was really inspired
actually by I've never met Dirk but Dirk
who has been working on the bitts walk
performance stuff we've been looking at
the code actually output by the bit swap
tests themselves and seeing if we can't
turn that into a data set it's a really
extent of being able to sort of just
refer to specific it commit run a whole
test grand suite and say from commit to
commit performance really exciting we're
also really inspired by the demo project
I don't know if you've seen denote land
they have an entire every single commit
to master as a set of benchmarks that
runs visualization then once against it
so we're just trying to productize that
pattern yeah I guess I've got questions
you just type them in a chat and then I
can answer them or others sure
Brendan maybe you can explain to people
who don't know what test ground is
exactly what you mean when you say test
ground
totally hopefully somebody from protocol
can link to the actual github but test
ground is a way to is sort of like a
orchestration setup where you can sort
of simulate Network environments which
as there went many folks know testing
peer-to-peer things is very difficult
understanding the interactions of a of a
immeasurably complex system is is really
hard and so one of the best things you
can do is actually just spin up an
entire sort of network and see how it
interacts and what test ground lets you
do is sort of like really get some
introspect into what each nodes view of
the universe is looking like and measure
specific things let's think it's
replicable and of like a god mode view
of a network hopefully that answers your
question
I don't know it's got metrics it's
really cool yeah yeah he's in there
somewhere modes
yeah you can run it inside of AWS it's
big it's small and it's it's I think
like it's safe to say that everyone who
is working on test ground the soup
stoked that you guys are starting to to
use it it is it's something that has
been in development really heavily
recently and so it's very new and there
be dragons in there so watch out for
them but ya know we're really excited
that for you to be picking up as well
this that's that's really good news and
we're really happy that's that's
happening so so yeah okay so another
question
so from Matt uber where are you able to
identify the main bottlenecks for the
performance issues your users were
complaining about
yeah most of it's us some of it is ipfs
ad I profess that's hard I doesn't want
to answer that in detail even the one
yeah yeah this is let me I've been
looking at recently just for kind of
unrelated reasons but there is a lot of
stuff that we were doing that's just
inefficient but also you know saving
block to my PFS can be slow we're not
we're not really taking advantage of a
lot of a synchronous work that we could
be doing we're like I'm of the opinion
we should just start saving and then
just like you know have our UI show
stuff and then you know it finishes in
the background or whatever you know like
we're waiting for things we don't need
to be waiting on right now yeah a lot of
it it's just like we also haven't
prioritized to work on making some of
the large dataset processing especially
fast so yeah there are some theories
there's some ideas but nothing concrete
we can identify just at the moment but
you have some graphs at least so you can
hopefully get there at some point - yeah
I mean step one is being able to prove
that we fixed it you know like when we
start working on it so we at least have
like a good base now of like where did
you go yeah measure it then fix it oh
good further that's better yeah nice
okay so we've got another question from
Simon here have you thought of creating
a tableau web data connector WDC I don't
know what that is but it sounds exciting
to consume and do analysis analytics on
the your data sets directly and Simon
also wonders if that's possible Simon
thank you for your question we have very
much this is an integration question and
I think it sort of ties into tibeats
question below which is gonna plug
versioning into any other app
integrations are a massive part of what
we do like query on its own is really
just the burgeoning bit it's like what's
not just that but that's really the
thing that we care about getting super
right I'm so question about like can we
do a web data connector for a blow and
that's very much the kind of thing that
we're thinking about and really where we
see a massive opportunity for like open
source to do to behave the right way
we've intentionally orchestrated all of
queries so it's highly pluggable for
day one you've been able to use query
the go binary itself is a library you
can import it right on top of it as you
need fit and that will actually
facilitate the ipfs repo connection
management and all that kind of stuff on
top of it so as for making a tableau
connector yes
currently it's in its a sitting below
the Postgres integration connector and
below the sort of Excel export connector
integration stuff that a lot of people
been asking for but as of right now you
can do a lot of things that will get you
there really quickly like where you can
take any kind of data with whether it be
JSON or seaboard or anything it supports
and spit it out as a CSV which usually
makes for a nice fast sort of like
importing into other mechanisms so
usually a pretty solid stopgap but
first-class support something like
tableau is absolutely something we'd
love to see yeah and then as for
plugging versioning into other stuff
totally we very much the nice thing
about having you know a Content address
system under the hood as a sort of
primitive for a versioning system is
like you wear as a really nice sense of
what is and it's not in a mixer with a
nice sort of pivoting point and then
plugging that in other stuff is often
just doing sort of data integration work
as sort of mentioned before as for like
native support of for query and other
stuff not so much the first thing that
we're really excited to do there is
actually the Apache arrow project which
is scheduled for later this year but
Apache arrow is really comports well
with the kind of technology we've been
working on and we've set our two
roadmaps on a sort of collision course
by using a lot of the same technologies
under the hood also I want to add
something there the the default way that
query works is that it's very much like
a database where everything is back you
know stored in my PFS
and it's kind of like an opaque system
where the user can't see the data we're
storing it and thinking about it
internally but we also have a mode where
you can check out files in a kid like
fashion so what what you normally think
of like the data set body can you know
just be the file in your file system and
that's kind of like our easier version
of integration you know you can you know
move a check that file into excel or
whatever I'm not familiar with tableau
WDC but that's something a look into but
yeah the idea is like we're basically
watching files and as they change we can
we can offer you
it's tough back into the repository that
we're keeping internally so yeah that's
step one on how we do integration just
use files Thanks
thank you Dawid does that answer your
question as well weird yeah yeah okay
all right Brad there are no more
questions in the chat but I have a
question
desktop looks slick did its March now
have you just been grinding on that for
two months or has it been in development
for a lot longer and
hey so do you wanna take this
sure um versions of the best of the
desktop app happens it stood for a while
I think in October November we decided
we wanted to go a sort of coalesce some
ideas that we had and came up with a new
version of the app and then in the past
two months I think was the redesign that
Brendan Brendan is responsible for it
looking so good I'm responsible for it
functioning red to dry it looks so good
but yeah thank you
nice I like it it's just a is it just
it's it's an Alexis good it is it's a
lecture on typescript react Redux all
right
snappy words I love it yeah fancy
blazing-fast with lots of integration
tests and hooks that's cool that's what
I like to hear
alright any other questions I will just
check to see if there are any if you if
you have any other agenda items that you
want if you've got like an announcement
or something you'd like to say what
we're here then you can you can you can
do that please add it to the agenda and
we'll go over it is there any other
questions before we we head on over the
desktop are you guys using the MF fests
or are you doing some of their sort of
interest in fault management fun that's
different from them with us it's good to
see you a great question yeah no we are
not using em FS we are actually still
writing an IPF sv1 Dex and that's for a
number of reasons we've had it we have a
whole conversation about links and IP LD
to be had that it's a long conversation
but so yeah right now we we have a sort
of like hacked management system that
actually creates the deck as the deck is
being created we're pulling the hashes
of the sub files then like pulling them
up into actually do this a definition
itself and then closing it and so it's
sort of like a purpose-built thing it's
using a little regular chunker and stuff
but not using em FS some of those right
now
sorry it's a sort of bespoke versioning
but yes super fun to go pinata we got to
talk at some point that's important so
that's that's really interesting what
what do you plan to move to em FS or are
you like a you too far are you too deep
into custom custom wells right now and
like what what would be like any the
blocker to you doing that biggest thing
is no dustin grunts right it's been a
road map for a while
just like we haven't be able to
prioritize there is a bit when we were
starting to make the move but then just
other things came up with because you
know we've got a bunch of pieces coming
down here and are in our kind of
environment our platform like we're kind
of doing things that are manually
imitating out of FS is like you don't
working yeah like we're doing things the
hard way I guess you could say nothing
has happened yet where we've been like
forced to do it so I think that's that's
because the thing we're just kind of
kicking the can down the road for now
but we do play to do it once you know it
seems appropriate
I don't know right did you get bored
details I'm what your thoughts are here
yeah there's one bit that I'd like to
service here it's go and I think it's a
really interesting question for this
group we like UNIX FS v1 decks because
we can put a file in there called
index.html and when you visit it that
from a from the gateways you see the
visualization right so we were demoing
that today from the knife LD perspective
we don't get that right we don't get
those sort of like nice pretty hey
you're looking at an IPL DS AG can how
do I sort of somehow and form a gateway
that this is the difficult HTML render
bring as far as I understand that's not
last time I checked with I feel D that
was like a question open question about
how we would actually do that and so if
we can figure that out or if somebody
can inform us on how to do that properly
that would be a massive help system for
us it's a bit of an either/or and it's
the only either/or that we can find
we're very much of the opinion that we
should be not doing custom things we
should be doing the normal thing
particularly in this universe where
we're all sort of like a bleeding edge
bleeding-edge on bleeding edge would be
nicer the more normal we can make it the
better but it's yeah for us it's been a
bit of a question on how to actually do
that
let me take that Hadron so as you do so
the long-term answer for this is that an
IP of the ADL will contain essentially a
rendering component for the web as well
so you will say this stuff when you plug
it into an IP into and something that
then in space as a gateway you also
render this other stuff with it based on
you know selection and stuff like that
inside this is like what the answer will
be to two years from now fingers crossed
as far as what can you do today this is
still an open question tied together
within a unique need to think which is
also an open question ask us and
cutonium well they will give him very
questions about chunking into a
composition there's there's lots to be
explored here and maybe we should sort
of make a point of opening that
conversation up more because towards the
end of this year will actually be the
time where we start to ask these
questions ourselves where we're walking
from a functionality perspective is like
we need the notion of a link inside of
query many of our users are asking for
attachments right like can I add
arbitrary file data and to query data
set and then right now the answer is no
you can only like create has a very
strong opinion about how it is that
should be shaped and that's intentional
but we would very much like to say like
the whole machine learning space and
computer vision space really needs to be
able to say this is a data set and each
of these cells is actually a link to a
document that is contained within this
day currently we have no way of saying
that and the answer that is obviously I
peeled D but right now we we kind of
can't we're it's not that we can't do it
it's just we want to architect that
carefully we link resolution for us it's
a very important sort of like
performance characteristic and so
there's a whole bunch of stuff to talk
about there which could be really fun to
read restart that conversation
absolutely just one more thing about
what they said there definitely will be
some sort of like middle middle ground
or how to get from point A to B is not
going to be like you have to wait for
this thing you know that allows for
pluggable HTTP gateways they is going to
be something in between we just don't
know what it is here also one one middle
ground would actually just be to use
mesh data no it's like when you finally
get units best to we will have like
arbitrary just link to anything so then
like the main link could be linked to
like the some root node bit points to
both of an HTML file for like to display
the data and then also points to the
actual data set so he was trying to kill
him the data's that you would like
traverse through the meta data to
actually fetch they do set itself and
the even the HTML page would be able to
do this in theory if that makes sense
oh that would be delightful we've had a
number of users ask for like basically
query j/s where you have the same thing
it's like window down ipfs where you can
sort of interact with and get a query
like system we have an api for
interacting with data sets and this has
been a that kind of thing sort of it
eludes us because we have to figure out
link resolution inside of hashes and so
like we've been doing that again in the
UNIX F has to be one world we can just
sort of do relative references which is
how we obviously do sort of
self-contained websites but this is a
whole whole thing yeah the question here
would be like how do you actually name
the things that are like linked to from
the metadata enough me actually
directory itself totally yeah yeah and
that's I mean I think we have a nice use
case then because we've the way we have
handled all of this so far has been
through convention right we every single
file has the exact same name and has the
exact well tags have the same layout
structure not from the perspective of
blocks but from the perspective of the
naming everything is always called from
data sent a son for the day so
definition metadata JSON for the meta
definition always and so it could be fun
to sort of look at that structure and as
a sort of potential use case for example
for metadata referencing through direct
was it's really cool in also thank you
we
kind of at a time for today but thank
like that's no whoa no no we are only
one minute over so it's okay but any
other questions you have for query
please get in touch with them how do we
get in touch with query go to our github
great - IO go to get our stuff star
stock stuffings and open issues and ask
questions and and have it check out
their logo because it's rad and yeah
just just thank you very much for coming
and presenting it's been super
interesting and I'm looking forward to
all the stuff you do in 2020 thank you
again everyone for coming and we'll see
you next week for another exciting
edition of ipfs weekly call bye bye
everyone